[MUSIC]
>> Aaron Frost: This is how they do that.
They're like, let's standardize it, so
they have to find a standardization
committee that can kind of be
an independent party and own the API.
And then they can just
implement it as JavaScript.
So Netscape reached out to this
committee called Ecma, and
it's independent of Microsoft and
it's independent of Netscape too.
And so in June of 97,
they sit down in 96 and they're like, hey,
let's read the whole thing and we need
like x months to approve the whole thing.
So they finally get it approved in
June of 97 the JS, the JavaScript API
becomes EcmaScript API, the interface
that other people can implement.
And it's the official API for ECMA,
the official scripting API for Ecma, and
a bunch of people
immediately jump on board.
People who have interest
in the language and
in implementing their own scripting
language jump on board with EcmaScript.
That's good.
They're able to roll
out some new features.
They roll out ES2.
They roll out ES3.
Everything's going well.
They still have a ton of ideas though
when they get it is AS3 out in 99,
and before we keep going,
I'm going to define what Ecma is.
Does anyone know what EcmaScript is?
Hold on, well let me talk before I
define EcmaScript vs JavaScript.
Does anyone not understand the difference
between EcmaScript and JavaScript?
So, I'm gonna just go
through it real quick.
So EcmaScript is language spec,
like they say this object
will have this method on it.
And if you call it, you should expect
to pass at these parameters, and
it will return you this
type of a return value.
So just kind of is a specification for
a language, and JavaScript is
a language that implements that spec.
And there's other languages
implement it as well.
So the docs for EcmaScript,
has anyone read them?
They're not humanly digestible very well.
They're tough to read unless you
have a solid degree, and I don't.
So they're still really, really hard for
me to digest, and the JavaScript docs
however will help you write code.
They explain to you, hey, this is you're
gonna call it and run it in JavaScript.
So there's other implementations
of the EcmaScript API though,
like ActionScript is
based on EcmaScript and
Java's Nashorn is based on EcmaScript.
And there's other out there.
You guys could probably
name a whole bunch more.
But Ecma, it used to stand for
the European Computer
Manufacturer Association,
and that's who they went to.
Netscape goes to this European Computer
Manufacturers Association to get this to
be their center scripting API.
But later they just rebrand as Ecma, so
it doesn't mean European Computer
Manufacturers Association anymore.
Ecma is a noun.
It's a name that they call themselves.
It's a proper name.
So their role is to
facilitate discussions and
make sure everyone is participating and
keeping it positive.
Does anyone, and Ecma puts a committee in
charge of steering the EcmaScript API.
Does anyone know the name
of the committee?
Besides him?
>> Speaker 2: TC 39.
>> Aaron Frost: TC 39, yeah.
So TC 39, TC stands for
technical committee.
I don't know what the 39 is,
but it's called TC 39.
So Technical Committee 39,
and the TC 39 is,
they're the ones currently
guiding it today.
Does anyone have any friends on the TC 39?
Acquaintances?
No, okay.
One guy.
No one on the chat.
All right, so I'm gonna go back.
So ES3 is 1999, and more people
started implementing this spec.
It's constantly getting implemented, and
browsers are becoming
more important in 99.
Remember we were about to have this
huge boom that's coming up in 2000?
And more people are getting involved
in the technical committee,
more people are caring about
the direction the language.
And they get two releases out,
and then there's this huge gap.
ES3 goes out in 99.
ES4 begins in 2006.
So we have this this notable gap
with not a lot of the middle,
so I wanted to kind of talk about
what happened there real quick.
So IE just kills Netscape,
just blows them out of the water.
Does everyone remember that,
when Internet Explorer was all you used?
And in 2003 Netscape ends.
They have one thing they do
before they go under though.
They're like, open source all of it,
so they open source all their stuff.
And IE kind of gets their glory days,
and the sandbagging happens.
And we have this huge gap where
there's not a lot of innovation.
The EcmaScript standards body
doesn't have any bite to like,
hey stop doing the things
that you're doing and
everyone stay in together, because no one
is really coming to the meetings anymore.
So it's gonna take a savior to
come back and stop this and
kinda get things back on track, and
then so the browser wars start.
And the guys from Netscape start Mozilla,
and we get Firefox.
I think it wasn't called Firefox,
does anyone remember what it was called?
I think it was like, was it Phoenix?
Something like that.
I can't even remember the first name.
I remember I used it, but
I can't remember what it was called.
Anyway so Mozilla's back.
So Mozilla's new in town, and they care
a lot about the browser, which is awesome.
And in 2006 they're able
to kindle everyone back into
talking about ES4 again.
So that was kind of the big
gap explained there.
That was why there was a big dead time for
JavaScript specifically, and
they start talking about ES4.
They've got a lot of ideas
that they left off back from
1999 when they did ES3, and
some of the ideas conflict.
And the implementations have different
goals, like the different companies
involved need different things
out of EcmaScript, the API.
And Crockford, he's like,
let's get rid of the bad parts.
Let's just keep the good parts,
and Brendan Eich's like, no,
let's get Microsoft to work on this
generatively and and make the specs match.
And Microsoft is like, no, we need to add
all this extra stuff for JScript.Net.
And Adobe's like, dude,
we got Flash stuff going on.
We needed classes and
some other stuff that they needed.
So there's a lot of pull in a bunch
of different directions, right?
So they come up with
these two main pushes.
They're like, hey,
let's do one small release, and
then a bunch of people jump on
that camp and that's called ES3.1.
And then there's another camp that's ES4,
which is significantly bigger.
So in ES1 we've got Mozilla,
and we've got Adobe, and
we've got Opera, and other people.
And on ES4 we've got Microsoft pushing for
ES4, and we've got Yahoo pushing for
ES4, and there's other people
in their camp as well.
And they they spend a lot of
time talking about this, and
they don't do a lot of agreeing.
And when you listen to them talk about it,
there's kind of a falling out where it got
really tough and
not productive in those TC 39 meetings,
and ultimately something's got to give
in order for the language to progress.
And of this fight, though,
at the end they're like, okay, ES3 wins.
The camp that wants to do a much
smaller release, they're gonna win for
now, and
ES4 can become a thing that we do next.
And so
these are the ideas of the two camps.
ES3 was lighter changes, strict mode,
and remove some bad stuff.
Note, don't add any new syntax, and this
is what some people were fighting for.
And then other people want some
heavier changes, classes and
other stuff like that.
And they ended up giving in,
the ES 4 people to
ES 3.1, and when you look at it,
a lot of what we're seeing in ES 6 is
this ES 4 stuff that kind of got pushed.
And so in 2008,
the TC39 meets in Oslo, and
everyone agrees, hey ES 4,
we're gonna postpone it.
ES 3.1, that's the new thing, and
to represent all the progress
we've made as a committee and
as the standardization body,
we're gonna rev the name, though, to ES 5.
And we're gonna call it 3.1,
we're gonna make it an official
release we can call ES 5,
which is why wasn't an ES 4.
That's where ES 5 came from.
And then we'll move on from there.
And Brendan sends out
an e-mail the next month.
He's like, hey,
we're working harmoniously now.
Everything's feels like it's going better,
anyway.
All the other features that ever
go into JavaScript are going into
a bucket I'm gonna call Harmony.
So a lot of us have heard Harmony
features, that just means every feature
that we want to implement, whether it's in
the next version or the two versions or
the third version from now,
it goes into this huge harmony bucket.
So in 2008 Brendan kind of emits
the idea of the harmony bucket,
and 2009 ES 5 is officially approved.
5.1 is officially approved in
June of 2011, and currently,
so the ES 6 is finalizing right now.
And they're still making
changes if you believe it,
around modules and
around classes and stuff.
So it's still moving,
even though they're trying to finalize it.
Maybe they'll finalize
it in June of next year.
Browser vendors are currently
working on ES6, and the TC39 is,
while they're talking about some of these
last features for ES6, they're talking
about ES7 already in and kind of nailing
down the proposals for that version.